okay welcome back to natural language
processing the next topic is going to be
on sentiment or not
so sentimental knowledge is a very
popular sub area of natural language
processing that has been popularized in
the last few years in fact the very
first papers on it were not published
until the late 90s and the most
important contributions and have only
been made in the last few years so what
does sentiment analysis let me start
with an example so I'm going to pick a
book that I particularly like by
Japanese author Haruki Murakami suppose
it I want to find one sort of reviews
were posted about this book by the way
the book's title is 1q84 what reviews
have been posted on the Internet
so here's some examples from the
Baltimore examiner one to 84 is a
tremendous feat and a triumph a must
read for me for anyone who wants to come
to terms with contemporary Japanese
culture that example perhaps one of the
most important works of science fiction
of the Year 1q84 does not disappoint it
envelops the reader in a shifting world
of strange cults and peculiar characters
that is Surya and entrancing and finally
another example of a review ambitious
spawning and thoroughly stunning
Orwellian dystopia sci fi the modern
world terrorism drugs apathy pop novels
all blend in this dreamlike strange and
wholly unforgettable epic oh by this
point it should be obvious that those
reviews are is actually fairly positive
and if you like this kind of books you
should based on those reviews decide to
read it so let's look at some of the
things that we can see in those reviews
that make us believe they're positive so
first is the presence of specific words
and phrases that are typically
correlated with a positive review so
triumphs a feat tremendous feat must
read and trancing ambitious stunning
unforgettable epic all those examples of
positive phrases in fact there very few
negative phrases in this example at all
he's not example about company so this
is this website that shows you in real
time the sentiment towards different
companies and their stocks and people
use this kind of information for trading
so you can pick some
of stockticker and observe how sentiment
of that company changes over time within
days or hours these are other examples
of sentiment analysis for things like
movie reviews product reviews debates
for example the create debate calm
website so there are many posts and
blogs that express sentiment some of
them express personal opinions and
there's some different research
questions that were interested in so one
is something called subjectivity
analysis so before we decided something
is better something is positive or
negative we have to decide whether it's
subjective or not because clearly
factual information is different from
subjective information so once you have
performance subjectivity analysis we can
do polarity analysis essentially
labeling things as either positive or
negative or perhaps giving them a number
of stars so let's say we're in a movie
review and we'd say based on the text of
the review we give it four stars out of
five or perhaps five stars we can also
do viewpoint analysis when they're
different topics for debate so is there
a person a Chelsea fan or Manchester
United fan is this person a Republican
or Democrat another research question is
can you figure out the sentiment target
are you giving your opinion about an
entire product for example the Apple
iPhone or about some specific part of it
for example the screen or the wireless
connection so the level granulite is
very important it can be sentiment for
an entire document for example moving in
view it can be in the level of
individual sentences or perhaps
individual attributes for example the
music about of a certain movie about a
specific actor so pinyin words are
important so there's different types of
those their base words such as for
example pretty or difficult they can
also be comparative this movie is better
than the other one or this processor is
slower than the sad one well if we just
count positive and negative words we are
not going to get a very good classifier
so for example just looking at the
negative words it's not enough because
some of them can be negated so some if
we say something is not
difficult that means that it's easy so a
one important component of sentiment
analysis is negation analysis where you
take all the occurrences of negation
phrases such as not or didn't and so on
and try to figure out what things they
negate so that you can possibly change
its polarity let's go back to the
reviews of 1q84 so the second review
here includes some negative voice was up
or the word disappoint but in fact if
you read maybe more careful you realize
that it says does not disappoint so we
have a negation of a negative word which
turns the entire thing into a positive
phase okay so let's look now at product
review so here's a website on Google
where people have written their reviews
about a specific smartphone Samsung
Galaxy s5 and you can see that they have
a total of 2,800 reviews a few are have
given one or two or three stars to this
product quite a few have given it four
stars and their eyes have given five
stars but what's more interesting is
that you can also have sentiment about
individual aspects of the product for
example its battery or its size or its
camera and so on and as you can see the
battery gets the highest positive rating
whereas the design and the screen and
the speakers and the headset get
relatively fewer positive reviews so
again all of this can be done
automatically by reading the reviews and
identifying polarity words associated
with the product or with individual
aspects of it
so it's also possible to use social
media sites such as Twitter to compute
sentiment so there's a website called
sentiment 140 where you can see what
sort of things people say about the
product on Twitter so again using the
Samsung Galaxy s5 example here we can
see that the majority of the reviews in
Twitter on Twitter are positive so
there's some important problems that
have to be resolved
I'm not going to propose solutions for
them at this point I just want to make
sure that you know that they exist so
pause with subtleties sometimes people
can use some very subtle formulations
and explain what they think about us
and Target concession so for example you
can say maybe this Porter has this
pointer but on on average it's a pretty
good product
they can also be manipulation at ten so
for example trying to convince you that
some product is good people also can use
sarcasm and irony which are very
difficult to detect and so on so let's
look at sentiment analysis is a
classification problem we want to
classify the documents or the sentences
into positive or negative so what kind
of features can we use we can use
individual words for example whether
they appear or not we're not really
interested in their frequency because
most of the time they're going to be
used just once punctuation for example
emoticons phrases the syntax of the
sentence all of those can be valid
features for classification one good
thing about sentiment analysis a lot of
training data is available so we can
take with our websites that have product
reviews and also look at the number of
stars that were given to that product
and use this as a training data set
there's a very nice data set from a
paper by Bob pang and Lily Ali at
cornell university that has movie
reviews and obtained it both for
polarity positive and negative and also
for number of stars so the technique
that I used are the standard techniques
using classification for example maximum
entropy or support vector machines and
naive Bayes so there's some really nice
resources available for example the CMU
Twitter parser is available from North
Smith's website and so on
so this is the end of the introduction
to sentiment analysis in the next
section we're going to look at
specifically at sentiment lexicons